PYTHON SOFTWARE FOUNDATION (PSF) ANNOUNCES PYTHON VERSION 2.3

New release enhances powerful programming language

FREDERICKSBURG, Va., July 29, 2003 -- The Python Software Foundation
(PSF) announces the release of version 2.3 of the Python programming
language. This major release introduces performance enhancements,
increased robustness, several minor language features, many additions
to the extensive standard library, improved support for Mac OS X and
several other Unix-based systems, and a large number of other
improvements.

Python is a powerful and agile programming language that significantly
increases programmer productivity. It is very easy to learn for
programmers of other languages such as C, C++, Java, and Visual Basic.
The language is the basis of mission-critical applications used by tens
of thousands of companies and organizations worldwide, and its user
base is growing rapidly. Python is increasingly used in large system
development to decrease software costs, mitigate risk, and meet
aggressive schedules.

"This new release combines a select set of language and standard
library improvements with a substantial speed boost. Typical Python
code runs 15 to 20 percent faster than it did in Python 2.2," said
Guido van Rossum, creator of Python and president of the PSF. "With
many bug fixes, enhancements, and a vastly improved IDLE, the Python
Integrated Development Environment, Python has become an even better
development platform."

Python 2.3 also adds boolean and set data types, source file encoding
indicator, zipped code archives, package meta data, extended date/time
processing, a logging module, and improved support for several
operating systems, including Mac OS X.

"The combination of the open source Unix-based core of Mac OS X running
on PowerBook G4 high-performance portables has attracted a large number
of developers using open source scripting languages like Python," said
Bud Tribble, Apple's vice president of Software Technology. "Python 2.3
provides greatly improved support for existing Mac OS X users, and with
the upcoming release of Panther, Apple will provide Python 2.3
developers direct access to APIs for the PDF-based Quartz graphics
engine and QuickTime image formats."

"Python's unique strengths, which include its interpreted nature,
modern design, easy integration with existing C/C++ code, and open
source license, make it ideally suited to be the high-level glue that
holds together the Chandler application," said John Anderson of OSAF.

Other companies using Python include Google, Industrial Light & Magic,
NASA, The New York Stock Exchange, RealNetworks, Philips, Hewlett
Packard, Rackspace, RedHat, NASA, Disney, and AstraZeneca.

"Python has been an integral part of Google since the beginning, and
remains so as the system grows and evolves. Today dozens of Google
engineers use Python, and we're looking for more people with skills in
this language," said Peter Norvig, director of search quality at
Google, Inc.

"Python plays a key role in our production pipeline. Without it a
project the size of Star Wars: Episode II would have been very
difficult to pull off. From crowd rendering to batch processing to
compositing, Python binds all things together," said Tommy Burnette,
Senior Technical Director, Industrial Light & Magic.

"NASA is using Python to implement a CAD/CAE/PDM repository and model
management, integration, and transformation system which will be the
core infrastructure for its next generation collaborative engineering
environment. Python has met or exceeded every requirement we've had,"
said Steve Waterbury, Software Group Leader, NASA STEP Testbed.

For more information about Python 2.3 or to download it, please visit
http://www.python.org/2.3/

About Python

Python is a powerful object oriented programming language that is
developed and maintained by a global community of Open Source
contributors, under the oversight of the Python Software Foundation.
Python's unique blend of simplicity and power excels in a wide range of
software development tasks, including the construction of web
applications, complex integrated business solutions, and large desktop
applications. Python is often characterized as an agile language that
promotes speedy development and includes a unit-testing framework for
building more robust applications.

Key features of Python include:

* Object orientation, modular name spaces, exceptions, and multi-threading
* High-level dynamic data typing and very late binding
* Tight integration with C, C++, and Java modules
* May be compiled to Java byte code for use in any JVM
* String and regular expression processing
* Extensive XML and web services support
* HTTP, FTP, SMTP, POP, IMAP, NNTP, telnet, and other IP protocols
* HTML, MIME, base64, binhex, uuencode, and other internet data handling
* GUI development and multimedia services
* Unit testing, profiling, and documentation generation
* Available third party modules for database access, math, 3D modeling,
  image processing, LDAP, WebDAV, jabber, MIDI, and much more

Python runs on Microsoft Windows, Mac OS X, Linux, Unix, OS/2, WinCE,
and many other operating systems. Full source code is available for the
language and associated standard libraries.

Additional information and downloads are available at www.python.org.

About the PSF

The Python Software Foundation (PSF) is a non-profit organization
devoted to advancing Open Source technology related to the Python
programming language. The PSF holds the intellectual property rights to
Python and plans to fund portions of future development of the
language. Additional information on the PSF is available at
http://www.python.org/psf. To make a tax-deductible donation, please
visit http://www.python.org/psf/donations.html. Company sponsorships
are also being accepted.
