March 9, 2005
Press Release
SOURCE: Python Software Foundation

PYCON 2005 - KEYNOTE SPEECH FROM GOOGLE INSIDER
Keynote Speech by Greg Stein Provides Glimpse at Google's Use of Python

Washington, DC, March 9, 2005 -- The organizers of PyCon 2005
have announced that Greg Stein, an engineering manager at Google
working with the Blogger team, will be giving a keynote presentation 
on Google's use of Python for internal projects.  Mr. Stein's keynote 
is scheduled for Friday, March 25, at 9:30 AM.

PyCon 2005, the third annual Python developers' conference, will be
held at George Washington University's Cafritz Conference Center in
Washington DC on March 23-25, 2005.  PyCon is a community-oriented
conference targeting developers interested in Python, a powerful open
source programming language.  The conference program will include
peer-reviewed presentations, impromptu talks, meetings for
planning future development, and two other keynote speakers:

      * Guido van Rossum, creator of Python, will discuss plans for future
        Python development.

      * Jim Hugunin, author of IronPython, will discuss its current
        status.  IronPython is a new implementation of the Python
	programming language for the Microsoft .NET and open-source Mono
	platforms.

PyCon 2005 is organized by members of the Python community, and made
possible by the Python Software Foundation and conference sponsors.
This year's sponsors include White Oak Technologies Inc., ActiveState,
the Open Source Applications Foundation, and Google.  Pre-registration
for PyCon 2005 costs $250 ($175 for students) until March 19th, and
$300 ($225 for students) at the door.  For more information or to
register, please visit the PyCon 2005 website:
http://www.python.org/pycon/2005/

About Greg Stein

Greg Stein is an engineering manager at Google, working with the
Blogger team.

Prior to that, Greg was a director of engineering at CollabNet where
he managed the Subversion project and releases of their CollabNet
Enterprise Edition product. He also worked at Microsoft as a
Development Manager, in the Commerce Server and Site Server
groups. Greg was a co-founder and the Corporate Technologist of eShop,
one of the first electronic commerce software companies, before its
acquisition by Microsoft.

In Greg's spare time, he works on many open source projects, such as
Subversion, WebDAV, and Python.  He also works on Apache projects and
is the current Chairman of the Apache Software Foundation.

About Python

Python is a powerful object-oriented programming language that is
developed and maintained by a global community of open source developers
under the oversight of the Python Software Foundation.

Python is very easy to learn for programmers familiar with other
languages such as C, C++, Java, and Visual Basic, and can
significantly increase programmer productivity.  It is often
characterized as an agile language that promotes speedy
development. Python is often used in large system development to
decrease software costs, mitigate risk, and meet aggressive
schedules. The language is the basis of applications used by tens of
thousands of companies and organizations worldwide, and its user base
is growing rapidly.

Additional information and downloads are available at www.python.org.

About the Python Software Foundation

The Python Software Foundation (PSF) is a non-profit organization
devoted to advancing Open Source technology related to the Python
programming language. The PSF holds the intellectual property rights to
Python and plans to fund portions of future development of the
language. Additional information on the PSF is available at
http://www.python.org/psf. To make a tax-deductible donation, please
visit http://www.python.org/psf/donations.html. Corporate sponsorships
are also being accepted.



Press Contact

Stephan Deibel
617-232-0059
sdeibel@wingware.com

