February 9, 2004
Press Release
SOURCE: Python Software Foundation

PYCON 2004 - SECOND ANNUAL PYTHON DEVELOPERS CONFERENCE
Keynote Speech by Mitchell Kapor, founder of Lotus

FREDERICKSBURG, Va., February 9, 2004 -- PyCon 2004, the second annual 
Python developers conference, will be held at George Washington University's
Cafritz Conference Center in Washington DC on March 24-26, 2004. 
Mitchell Kapor, founder of Lotus Development Corporation and the Open Source 
Applications Foundation, will be the keynote speaker.

PyCon is a community-oriented conference targeting developers interested
in Python, a powerful open source programming language.  PyCon provides
opportunities to learn about significant advances in the Python
development community, and to meet fellow developers from around the
world. The conference program includes peer-reviewed presentations, the
annual Python state of the union address, and open space for informal
talks and meetings.

"PyCon brings together Python users of all types, from newbies to
veterans, to exchange ideas, work on code, discuss future directions for
the language, and in general to foster the continued success and growth
of the Python technology base. This is a community-oriented conference
and the Python community includes everyone, from grade schoolers just
learning about computer science, to renowned scientists interested in
using the best tools, to business people looking for a secret weapon,"
said Guido van Rossum, creator of Python.

PyCon 2004 is organized by members of the Python community, and made
possible by the Python Software Foundation and the conference sponsors
Hostway, ActiveState, White Oak Technologies Inc, Tummy.com, ZeOmega, 
and Wing IDE for Python.

Early bird conference registration costs $175 US ($125 for students) 
through February 22nd.  Regular per-registration after that date will 
cost $250 ($175 for students), and $300 ($225 for students) at the 
conference.

For more information or to register, please visit the PyCon 2004 website:
http://pycon.org/

Coding Sprints

The conference will be preceded by 4 days of coding sprints, March 20-23,
which offers developers an XP-style environment to advance the Python
code base and popular Python-based modules such as the Zope application
server, Plone content management system, Twisted framework for
asynchronous programming, Docutils structured text processing system,
and the Chandler personal information manager.

Participation in sprints is free of charge and open to all.

Planning for the sprints is taking place on the Python wiki at 
http://www.python.org/cgi-bin/moinmoin/SprintPlan2004

About Python

Python is a powerful object-oriented programming language that is
developed and maintained by a global community of open source developers,
under the oversight of the Python Software Foundation.

Python is very easy to learn for programmers of other languages such as
C, C++, Java, and Visual Basic, and can significantly increase programmer
productivity.  It is often characterized as an agile language that
promotes speedy development and includes a unit-testing framework for
building more robust applications. Python is often used in large system 
development to decrease software costs, mitigate risk, and meet aggressive 
schedules. The language is the basis of applications used by tens of 
thousands of companies and organizations worldwide, and its user base 
is growing rapidly.

Key features of Python include:

* Object orientation, modular name spaces, exceptions, and multi-threading
* High-level dynamic data typing and very late binding
* Tight integration with C, C++, and Java modules
* May be compiled to Java byte code for use in any JVM
* String and regular expression processing
* Extensive XML and web services support
* HTTP, FTP, SMTP, POP, IMAP, NNTP, telnet, and other IP protocols
* HTML, MIME, base64, binhex, uuencode, and other internet data handling
* GUI development and multimedia services
* Unit testing, profiling, and documentation generation
* Available third party modules for database access, scientific computation,
  visualization, 3D modeling, image processing, LDAP, WebDAV, jabber, 
  MIDI, game development, and much more

Python runs on Microsoft Windows, Mac OS X, Linux, Unix, OS/2, WinCE,
and many other operating systems. Full source code is available for the
language and associated standard libraries.

Additional information and downloads are available at www.python.org.

About the PSF

The Python Software Foundation (PSF) is a non-profit organization
devoted to advancing Open Source technology related to the Python
programming language. The PSF holds the intellectual property rights to
Python and plans to fund portions of future development of the
language. Additional information on the PSF is available at
http://www.python.org/psf. To make a tax-deductible donation, please
visit http://www.python.org/psf/donations.html. Company sponsorships
are also being accepted.

Press Contact

Stephan Deibel
Archaeopteryx Software, Inc.
PO Box 1937
Brookline, MA 02446
617-232-0059
sdeibel@wingide.com
http://www.wingide.com/

