INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE                         DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY
P. 0. BOX 2508
CINCINNATI, OH  45201

Date: FEB 25 2003

PYTHON SOFTWARE FOUNDATION
C/0 ZONE CORPORATION
513 PRINCE EDWARD ST
FREDERICKSBURG, VA  22401
                                        Employer Identification Number:
                                         04-3594598
                                        DLN:
                                         17053148014022
PYTHON SOFTWARE FOUNDATION              Contact Person:
C/0 ZONE CORPORATION                     MS. D. JAMES                ID# 52423
513 PRINCE EDWARD ST                    Contact Telephone Number:
FREDERICKSBURG, VA  22401                (877) 829-5500
                                        Accounting Period Ending:
                                            December 31
                                        Foundation Status Classification:
                                            509(a)(1)
                                        Advance Ruling Period Begins:
                                            February 20, 2001
                                        Advance Ruling Period Ends:
                                            December 31, 2005
                                        Addendum Applies:
                                            No
Dear Applicant:

      Based on information you supplied, and assuming your operations
will be as stated in your application for recognition of exemption, we have
determined you are exempt from federal income tax under section 501(a)
of the Internal Revenue Code as an organization described in section
501(c)(3).
      Because you are a newly created organization, we are not now making a
final determination of your foundation status under section 509 (a) of
the Code.  However, we have determined that you can reasonably expect
to be a publicly supported organization described in sections
509(a)(1) and 170(b)(1)(A)(vi).
     Accordingly, during an advance ruling period you will be treated as a
publicly supported organization, and not as a private foundation.
This advance ruling period begins and ends on the dates shown above.
     Within 90 days after the end of your advance ruling period, you must
send us the information needed to determine whether you have met the
requirements of the applicable support test during the advance
ruling period.  If you establish that you have been a publicly
supported organization, we will classify you as a section 509(a)(1)
or 509(a)(2) organization as long as you continue to meet the
requirements of the applicable support test.  If you do not meet the
public support requirements during the advance ruling period, we will
classify you as a private foundation for future periods.  Also, if we
classify you as a private foundation, we will treat you as a private
foundation from your beginning date for purposes of section 507(d) and
4940.
     Grantors and contributors may rely on our determination that you are not a
private foundation until 90 days after the end of your advance ruling
period.  If you send us the required information within the 90 days,
grantors and contributors may continue to rely on the advance
determination until we make
                                                           Letter 1045 (DO/CG)

                                     -2-
PYTHON SOFTWARE FOUNDATION

a final determination of your foundation status.

     If we publish a notice in the Internal Revenue Bulletin stating that we
will no longer treat you as a publicly supported organization,
grantors and contributors may not rely on this determination after the
date we publish the notice.  In addition, if you lose your status as a
publicly supported organization, and a grantor or contributor was
responsible for, or was aware of, the act or failure to act, that
resulted in your loss of such status, that person may not rely on this
determination from the date of the act or failure to act.  Also, if a
grantor or contributor learned that we had given notice that you would
be removed from classification as a publicly supported organization,
then that person may not rely on this determination as of the date he
or she acquired such knowledge.
     If you change your sources of support, your purposes, character, or method
of operation, please let us know so we can consider the effect of the
change on your exempt status and foundation status.  If you amend your
organizational document or bylaws, please send us a copy of the
amended document or bylaws.  Also, let us know all changes in your
name or address.
     As of January 1, 1984, you are liable for social security taxes under
the Federal Insurance Contributions Act on amounts of $100 or more you
pay to each of your employees during a calendar year.  You are not
liable for the tax imposed under the Federal Unemployment Tax Act
(FUTA).
     Organizations that are not private foundations are not subject to
the private foundation excise taxes under Chapter 42 of the Internal
Revenue Code.  However, you are not automatically exempt from other
federal excise taxes.  If you have any questions about excise,
employment, or other federal taxes, please let us know.
     Donors may deduct contributions to you as provided in section 170 of the
Internal Revenue Code.  Bequests, legacies, devises, transfers, or
gifts to you or for your use are deductible for Federal estate and
gift tax purposes if they meet the applicable provisions of sections
2055, 2106, and 2522 of the Code.
     Donors may deduct contributions to you only to the extent that their
contributions are gifts, with no consideration received.  Ticket
purchases and similar payments in conjunction with fundraising events
may not necessarily qualify as deductible contributions, depending on
the circumstances.  Revenue Ruling 67-246, published in Cumulative
Bulletin 1967-2, on page 104, gives guidelines regarding when
taxpayers may deduct payments for admission to, or other participation
in, fundraising activities for charity.
     You are not required to file Form 990, Return of Organization Exempt From
Income Tax, if your gross receipts each year are normally $25,000 or
less.  If you receive a Form 990 package in the mail, simply attach
the label provided, check the box in the heading to indicate that your
annual gross receipts are normally $25,000 or less, and sign the
return.  Because you will be treated as a public charity for return
filing purposes during your entire advance ruling period, you should
file Form 990 for each year in your advance ruling period
                                                           Letter 1045 (DO/CG)

                                     -3-
 PYTHON SOFTWARE FOUNDATION

that you exceed the $25,000 filing threshold even if your sources of
support do not satisfy the public support test specified in the
heading of this letter.
      If a return is required, it must be filed by the 15th day of the fifth
month after the end of your annual accounting period.  A penalty of
$20 a day is charged when a return is filed late, unless there is
reasonable cause for the delay.  However, the maximum penalty charged
cannot exceed $10,000 or 5 percent of your gross receipts for the
year, whichever is less.  For organizations with gross receipts
exceeding $1,000,000 in any year, the penalty is $100 per day per
return, unless there is reasonable cause for the delay.  The maximum
penalty for an organization with gross receipts exceeding $1,000,000
shall not exceed $50,000.  This penalty may also be charged if a
return is not complete.  So, please be sure your return is complete
before you file it.
     You are not required to file federal income tax returns unless you are
subject to the tax on unrelated business income under section 511 of
the Code.  If you are subject to this tax, you must file an income tax
return on Form 990-T, Exempt Organization Business Income Tax Return.
In this letter we are not determining whether any of your present or
proposed activities are unrelated trade or business as defined in
section 513 of the Code.
     You are required to make your annual information return. Form 990 or
Form 990-EZ, available for public inspection for three years after the
later of the due date of the return or the date the return is filed.
You are also required to make available for public inspection your
exemption application, any supporting documents, and your exemption
letter.  Copies of these documents are also required to be provided to
any individual upon written or in person request without charge other
than reasonable fees for copying and postage.  You may fulfill this
requirement by placing these documents on the Internet.  Penalties may
be imposed for failure to comply with these requirements.  Additional
information is available in Publication 557, Tax-Exempt Status for
Your Organization, or you may call our toll free number shown above.
     You need an employer identification number even if you have no employees.
If an employer identification number was not entered on your
application, we will assign a number to you and advise you of it.
Please use that number on all returns you file and in all
correspondence with the Internal Revenue Service.
     If we said in the heading of this letter that an addendum applies, the
addendum enclosed is an integral part of this letter.
     Because this letter could help us resolve any questions about your exempt
status and foundation status, you should keep it in your permanent
records.

                                                          Letter 1045 (DO/CG)

                                        -4-                            
PYTHON SOFTWARE FOUNDATION

      If you have any questions, please contact the person whose name and
telephone number are shown in the heading of this letter.

                                              Sincerely yours,
                                              [signature]
                                              Lois G. Lerner
                                              Director, Exempt Organizations

Enclosure(s):
Form 872-C

                                                          Letter 1045 (DO/CG)
